>> Richard Feldman: All right, [COUGH] so
let's put booleans to some use here.
So let's talk about booleans for
a list membership.
So let's say we've got this list,
1, 2, and 3.
And I wanna call List.member on it,
passing the number 1 as the thing
that I wanna check the membership of.
So List.member 1 in the list [1, 2,
3] says is 1 a member of this list?
And this function's going to return
true because, yes, indeed 1 is,
in fact, a member of the list 1,
2, and 3, it's in there somewhere.
You could also say List.member 9 in
this list, and that's gonna return false
because the number 9 is not a member
of this list, it's nowhere in there.
We're gonna use this a little bit
in the exercise in conjunction with
filtering lists.
So, again let's say we have a list [1,
2, 3], and we want strip it down
to a smaller list that has fewer values in
it by looking at each of the values and
deciding if it's keepable,
if we want to keep that value.
So to do this, we'll write a little
function called is keepable,
which is gonna accept one of
these numbers in the list.
And it's gonna return either true or
false to specify whether or
not we wanna keep it after
we perform our filter.
So let's say we specify our
isKeepable function to be,
keep it only if the number
is greater than 1.
So we call List.filter,
passing this isKeepable function and
then the list 1, 2, and 3.
And what filters gonna do is it's
gonna iterate over this list and
each one is gonna call isKeepable on it.
So it's gonna say, is 1 greater than 1?
Not it's not, so isKeepable returns false.
Which means we are not going to keep that,
we're gonna drop it out of the list.
Next one, 2, is 2 greater than 1?
Yeah, that is keepable, true.
Is that keepable?
Also True.
So the end result of this is gonna be,
it's gonna return a new list 2 and 3.
It's gonna have dropped 1 because 1 was
not keepable according to the function
that we passed.
And we can pass whatever function we want
here to filter the list in whatever ways
that we want.
Okay, one way we could do it is
this way with a named function.
We could also just write an anonymous
function, like we saw earlier.
Just remember that backslash
syntax with the arrow.
So saying, \num -> num > 1, same thing
as naming the function isKeepable.
That would allow us to
do it in line like this.
And again, we'll get the same answer.
So anonymous functions are commonly
used with filter like this,
just the same way that they are in map.
In general, when you tend to be
iterating over things in Elm,
anonymous functions are a pretty
common tool for the job of doing that.